一脚60年，这个破坏丹霞千年地貌的视频让网友们愤怒了！ 世纪君 中国日报双语新闻 中国日报双语新闻 微信号 Chinadaily_Mobile 功能介绍 China Daily 旗下官方账号。想学接地气的实用英语表达？想看最新环球热点资讯？想了解英美国家的文化生活？来找双语君吧！每周七天，我们（chinadaily_mobile）为您的英语保鲜！ 本文转自21世纪英文报，已获授权 这两天，有关游客闯进保护区破坏丹霞地貌的抖音视频在网上传播。而丹霞地貌的恢复，则需要60年。 这一视频迅速引发网友批判，同时也呼吁大家提高保护自然遗产的意识。 Video clips of three tourists trespassing into the national geographical park in Northwest China and damaging the protected Danxia landform, which required nearly 60 years to be recovered once it was trampled, has triggered widespread criticisms on social media and raised the awareness of the protection of natural heritage in the country. 张掖丹霞地貌形成于侏罗纪白垩纪时期，表面是由细砂岩和泥质岩构成，极易被风化侵蚀，类似活化石一样的存在，是不可再生资源。 据当地警方周二公布的消息，破坏景区地貌的游客共有4名，其中许姓（17岁）男子和李姓（20岁，抖音视频发布者）男子已经投案自首，其余2人身份正在核实中。 Two out of the four suspects, who were identified as Xu, 17, and Li, 20, had turned themselves in to the police while the identities of the rest were still being investigated, according to the local police on Tuesday. 视频显示，四名游客闯入甘肃张掖丹霞国家公园特级保护区破坏原始地貌，起初其中一人是在抖音上直播，随后在网络上传播开来。 The two video clips of four tourists trespassing into the Danxia Landform Geological Park in Zhangye City, Northwest China's Gansu Province, were first posted on Douyin, by one of the suspect on Tuesday and began to circulate widely. 抖音用户“现场当事人”上传的视频中，两男一女行走在七彩丹霞岩体上。该用户还配文“重要的是（事）发两遍，我们去的后山不用给门票，比给门票的还要好看”。 In one of the videos, two men and a woman could be seen walking on the red and yellow striped land in the park. Posted along with the video, the description below said, "Important things should be emphasized twice: We didn't buy any tickets to enter this area and the scenery here was much better than the area where tickets were required." 另一段视频中，一名手持相机男子则感叹， “我破坏了六千年的（原始地貌）”。 In another video, a man bragged to the camera, saying: "I damaged the landform that was formed 6,000 years ago." Another suspect who filmed the video was seen trampling the land and kicking the sand with his bare foot. 其余一名拍摄视频的游客则赤脚在丹霞地貌上“翻地扬土”。 视频迅速传播，也让网友们愤怒不已，纷纷批判这样的行为。 "These tourists has brought immeasurable losses to the geopark after they damaged the Danxia landform," commented a user @laotandianshang on Weibo, China's Twitter-like platform. "That's brutal! It took tens of millions of years for the Danxia landform to be formed. I've already seen some immoral tourists damaging the landscape when I visited there several days ago and the local security couldn't eliminate such incidents by just warning them. I hope local authorities could increase the penalties!" commented another user @woshidapengsky on Weibo. 当地有关部门在周二发布公告，表示已经开展调查，寻找破坏地貌的游客，并且组织专家进行勘探。 Local authority noticed the issue as soon as the video went viral and released an announcement on Tuesday, saying that an investigation was launched and efforts were being made to hunt the suspects, and a group of experts was called to detect the damage. 据《新京报》报道，张掖丹霞大景区管委会主任袁得平表示，四人并非通过正式大门进入公园，而且到达的都是没有向公众开放的地方。这片地区此前有围栏保护，但是现在已被损坏。 Investigators discovered that the four suspects didn't enter the geopark through an official entrance and the area they visited was not opened to the public, Yuan Deping, director of the geopark told Beijing News. He added that the area was initially protected by the guard rails, however, some parts of the rails were discovered damaged. 29日，抖音方面向《兰州晨报》发来声明，抖音已经对相关视频做了下架处理，并对相关账户予以永久封禁。 每年七八月，是张掖丹霞地质公园的旅游旺季，游客的不文明现象也层出不穷： 针对此类行为，景区计划在明年年初实行游客实名制购票，不文明的游客将会被拉入景区黑名单。 综合来源：齐鲁晚报、兰州晨报、人民网、澎湃新闻、新京报、CGTN 本文转自21世纪英文报，已获授权 推 荐 阅 读 男生撑阳伞太“娘”？日本男人们做了一件事：“仿佛打开新世界大门” 砍人被反杀！昆山事件背后细节被挖出，被砍轿车司机涉黑？ 世纪君 赞赏 长按二维码向我转账 受苹果公司新规定影响，微信 iOS 版的赞赏功能被关闭，可通过二维码转账支持公众号。 阅读 微信扫一扫 关注该公众号 微信扫一扫 使用小程序 即将打开""小程序 取消 打开