你的倦怠和质疑都是通往成功必渡的劫！道友，挺住！（185句） 原创： 何凯文 何凯文考研英语 何凯文考研英语 微信号 kkenglish 功能介绍 何凯文考研英语辅导账号 如上图！ 今天的句子：’ 经典真题讲解： Yet the BBC will have to change, because the broadcasting world around it is changing. The commercial TV channels — ITV and Channel 4 — were required by the Thatcher Government's Broadcasting Act to become more commercial, competing with each other for advertisers, and cutting costs and jobs. But it is the arrival of new satellite channels — funded partly by advertising and partly by viewers' subscriptions — which will bring about the biggest changes in the long term. 思考题： 58. The foremost reason why the BBC has to readjust itself is no other than ________. [A] the emergence of commercial TV channels [B] the enforcement of Broadcasting Act by the government [C] the urgent necessity to reduce costs and jobs [D] the challenge of new satellite channels 快速思路解析： 第一句：BBC不得不改变，因为其周围的广播的世界在变！ 第二句：变化的表现一。（原因一） 第三句：变化的表现二。（原因二） 现在问题就来了：到底是看第二句还是看第三句呢？ A选项和B选项还有C选项仿佛在对应着第二句； D选项对应第三句； 这个时候就要检查你是否尊重题干了！ 题干中有个很重要的定位词: The foremost reason 这是在问最主要的原因！ no other than表示强调，=正是，就是... 所以第二句和第三句的地位是不一样的！ 第三句中：But it is the arrival of new satellite channels — funded partly by advertising and partly by viewers' subscriptions — which will bring about the biggest changes in the long term. 有But,有biggest所以第三句才是主要原因啊！ 所以答案只能选择D！ 同时：ABC这三个选项都不是对第二句话的同意替换，只是看上去有点相似而已！即使你看不出ABC的错误，那你也必须知道定位到第二句就是错的！ 你必须尊重题干！精确定位！！！ 在这里你看到的解析应该是经典！ 不废话！直击要害！ （预测版时文已经售罄一批，存货不多，加印需要时间，都是缘。） 明天的句子：（很重要，绝对考点！） 第一段： This chasm disproportionately dictates outcomes. While some mobility remains within the middle rungs, the top and bottom 10 percent are the most likely to end up where they’re born. 第一题： Mobility is most likely ended in the top and bottom 10 percent. 第二段： In America, elite education is the gateway to elite professions. Well over half of Ivy League graduates enter the preserves of the highly educated: finance, management consulting, medicine or law. 第二题： Management consulting and medicine are usually preserved for the highly educated. 新的一周，点赞就靠各位了，拜托了，感谢！九月，一起渡劫！ 何凯文 赞赏 长按二维码向我转账 受苹果公司新规定影响，微信 iOS 版的赞赏功能被关闭，可通过二维码转账支持公众号。 阅读 微信扫一扫 关注该公众号 微信扫一扫 使用小程序 即将打开""小程序 取消 打开