这很重要！你必须关注:找指代！这个坑你躲过了吗！？（161句） 原创： 何凯文 何凯文考研英语 何凯文考研英语 微信号 kkenglish 功能介绍 何凯文考研英语辅导账号 最近，我们被这样的图片被刷屏，人类必须警醒。 由于全球变暖，善于游泳的北极熊会因为找不到足够承载自己体重的浮冰而被淹死。今天的文章来自卫报，讲到空气污染，呼吁各国必须重视。标题更是这样的：Air pollution is a lethal blight that shames our politicians 今天的句子： When there are clear alternatives to burning fossil fuels then politicians who do not act to prevent it must stand accused not just of failing to act, but of condoning the mass poisoning of their people. 思考题： Politicians who do not stop alternatives must be blamed for ignoring the health of people. 词汇突破： 1. alternatives 可替换物或者方式 2. fossil fuels 化石能源 3. stand accused not just of A， but of B 不仅被指责为A，而且被指责为B 4. condone 纵容（这个词是超纲词）但是完全不影响做题。（会影响做题的词我都替换了。） 比如昨天：laude= praise; price gouging= price raising 该做的我都会做，你也不要懈怠！ 5. blame 指责 切分： When there are clear alternatives to burning fossil fuels then politicians who do not act to prevent it must stand accused not just of failing to act, but of condoning the mass poisoning of their people. 1. When there are clear alternatives to burning fossil fuels 当出现明显的对于燃烧化石能源的可替换方式时 2. then politicians who do not act to prevent it must stand accused 这里it 的指代是关键！it只能是：burning fossil fuels It是单数不可能指代clear alternatives啊！ 思考题中：Politicians who do not stop alternatives！！！这就是偷换啊！ 所以思考题是错误的！ 真题链接： There will betelevision chat shows hosted by robots, and cars with pollution monitors thatwill disable them when they offend. （这是翻译题，你必须找到指代！） 3.not just of failing to act, but of condoning the mass poisoning 不仅仅是因为他们不作为，而且因为他们纵容对于本国人民的大规模毒害。 参考译文： 当有明显的可替换方式出现，而不用再燃烧化石能源的时候，那些不采取行动来阻止燃烧化石能源的政客们必须受到指责，不仅因为他们不作为，而且因为他们纵容大规模的毒害本国人民。 明天的句子： 当地时间8月6日，西好莱坞市市政委员全票通过一项决议，敦促洛杉矶市和好莱坞商会将特朗普之星从星光大道上移除，认为特朗普这个人很受争议，就不配这种名誉。 Incidentally, if you’re wondering whether the stars belonging to Oscar-winning directors Roman Polanski or Woody Allen have become contentious, the answer is that they don’t exist. Presence on the Walk of Fame is by no means an automatic honor C a celebrity has to be nominated, then they have to accept it and someone has to shell out $40,000. 思考题： The reason why there is no name of Roman Polanski on the Walk of Fame may be that _____ (A) the fame of him and Woody Allen is disputable and controversial. (B) his relation with Woody Allen is contentious for the Oscar competition. (C) he is not famous enough to be accepted by the Walk of Fame. (D) he has not been recommended or get the required payment paid. 全靠各位点赞点中间了！感谢感谢！ 何凯文 赞赏 长按二维码向我转账 受苹果公司新规定影响，微信 iOS 版的赞赏功能被关闭，可通过二维码转账支持公众号。 阅读原文 阅读 微信扫一扫 关注该公众号 微信扫一扫 使用小程序 即将打开""小程序 取消 打开