重磅发布：今天的每日一句在这里讲授重要思路！必看！（180句） 原创： 何凯文 何凯文考研英语 何凯文考研英语 微信号 kkenglish 功能介绍 何凯文考研英语辅导账号 我们来看一道真题： "about-face" (Line 1, Para 3) most probably means [A] loss of good will [B] increase of hostility [C] change of attitude 告诉我哪个选项一定对？（答案在后面，先别看） 今天的句子来自本月的哈佛商业评论（HBR）Harvard Business Review, August, 2018.标题是：Finding the Perfect Pace for Product Launches（找到完美的新品发布节奏）反省了之前商家在发布商品时的种种弊端，库马尔的团队认为问题不仅仅涉及成本和资源限制。他们写道：“快速推出新品的公司很少有时间来评估产品，从中获益，吸收经验，并部署到商业目的上”。 今天的句子： Managers don’t need an academic study to recognize that launches take a toll on many parts of a company, from design and development to manufacturing and marketing. Firms that launch many new products incur high costs, which may hurt stock returns. 思考题： What does the author mean by “take a toll” (First line)? (A) make the damage (B) make a survey (C) win the trust (D) increase the cost 词汇突破： 1. launch 新品发布 2. incur 导致（这个词你必须知道哈！） 3. hurt stock returns 损害股票收益 第一句： Managers don’t need an academic study to recognize that launches take a toll on many parts of a company, from design and development to manufacturing and marketing. 切分： 1. Managers don’t need an academic study to recognize that 2. launches take a toll on many parts of a company, 3. from design and development to manufacturing and marketing. 参考译文：管理人员不需要学术研究来就知道，产品发布会在公司的许多部门造成消极影响，从设计开发、制造到市场营销，不一而足。 第二句： Firms that launch many new products incur high costs, which may hurt stock returns. 参考译文：公司推出许多新产品会带来高昂的成本，可能会损害股票收益。 想好了吧： "about-face" (Line 1, Para 3) most probably means [A] loss of good will [B] increase of hostility [C] change of attitude 现在想好了吧,答案C是一定对的！ 因为[A] loss of good will 丢掉好意 [B] increase of hostility 增加敌意 [C] change of attitude 态度转变 无论是“丢掉好意”还是“增加敌意”都是态度转变啊！ 所以我为什么不选态度转变这样一个一定对的选项呢？ 同理: (A) make the damage (D) increase the cost “增加开支在这个语境”一定是“造成破坏” 所以(A) make the damage 是一定正确的！ 记住：越模糊的选项越正确。 大家肯定看到了第二句：公司推出许多新产品会带来高昂的成本，可能会损害股票收益。 知道“take a toll”是个负面含义的词汇，但你怎么就知道一定是增加成本的意思呢？后面的损害股票收益呢？所以只能选(A) make the damage啊！ 再次强调：越模糊的选项越正确。 最后：take a toll就是表示“造成破坏”的意思。 今天的句子： Remember the last time you were scrolling through an email and saw phrases like “Reattached for your convenience”, “sorry for the double email” or “please advise”? You’re not alone if you felt enraged by reading them. In fact, the nine most loathed phrases in emails all had one thing in common: passive aggression. 思考题： “Reattached for your convenience” is regarded as passive aggression. 这么棒的思路不点个赞？ 这么体贴你不点个中间? 都唱歌了，还不点？ 谢了！ 何凯文 赞赏 长按二维码向我转账 受苹果公司新规定影响，微信 iOS 版的赞赏功能被关闭，可通过二维码转账支持公众号。 阅读 微信扫一扫 关注该公众号 微信扫一扫 使用小程序 即将打开""小程序 取消 打开