来自MIT的考研热点文章：我们的技术真的那么发达吗？（159句） 原创： 何凯文 何凯文考研英语 何凯文考研英语 微信号 kkenglish 功能介绍 何凯文考研英语辅导账号 后天晚上十点（8月9日）凯文带你刷真题！就在一直播！不见不散！ 今天的句子来自6月MIT Technology Review 的一篇文章（The Productivity Paradox）2004左右以来, 世界上大多数富裕国家的生产效率增长都十分惨淡。尤其令人烦恼的是经济学家称为全要素生产率的缓慢增长――这个指标反映创新和技术的贡献。我们今天的技术可以说很发达了，但是为什么带来的经济增长却没有想象的那么大？经济学家们将之称为 “生产效率悖论”。有观点认为，今天的技术并没有我们想象的那么骄人。 今天的句子： In a time of Facebook, smartphones, self-driving cars, and computers that can beat a person at just about any board game, how can the key economic measure of technological progress be so pathetic? Some argue that it’s because today’s technologies are not nearly as impressive as we think. Robert Gordon contends that compared with breakthroughs like indoor plumbing and the electric motor, today’s advances are small and of limited economic benefit. 思考题： Time was when the technological advance brought more economic returns. 词汇突破： 1.contend 认为 2. breakthrough 突破 3. indoor plumbing 室内管道系统 4. pathetic 惨淡 5. Time was when 曾经 （有同学说这个表达好像见过，你应该见过：2010年的翻译真题：Time was when biologists somewhat over worded the evidence.） 第一句： In a time of Facebook, smartphones, self-driving cars, and computers that can beat a person at just about any board game, how can the key economic measure of technological progress be so pathetic? 切分： 1.In a time of Facebook, smartphones, self-driving cars, and computers 2.that can beat a person at just about any board game, That=computer 3.how can the key economic measure of technological progress be so pathetic? 参考译文：在这个脸书、智能手机、自动驾驶汽车和电脑能够在任何棋类游戏中击败人类的时代，技术进步的关键经济指标怎会如此可怜？ 第二句： Some argue that it’s because today’s technologies are not nearly as impressive as we think. 切分： 1. Some argue that 2. it’s because today’s technologies are not nearly as impressive as we think. 参考译文：一些人认为这是因为今天的技术并没有我们想象的那么骄人。 第三句： Robert Gordon contends that compared with breakthroughs like indoor plumbing and the electric motor, today’s advances are small and of limited economic benefit. 切分： 1. Robert Gordon contends that 2. compared with breakthroughs like indoor plumbing and the electric motor, 3. today’s advances are small and of limited economic benefit. 参考译文：罗伯特. 戈登认为, 与室内管道和电动机等突破性技术相比, 当下的技术进步很小, 经济利益有限。 思考题： Time was when the technological advance brought more economic returns. 根据第三局的最后一个小分句知道，这个思考题的表述是正确的。 是的，你就是不知道：Time was when= In the past 昨天的真题链接：（03年第二篇第三题） Leaders of the animal rights movement target biomedical research because it depends on public funding, and few people understand the process of health care research. Hearing allegations of cruelty to animals in research settings, many are perplexed that anyone would deliberately harm an animal. For example, a grandmotherly woman staffing an animal rights booth at a recent street fair was distributing a brochure that encouraged readers not to use anything that comes from or is tested in animals―no meat, no fur, no medicines. Asked if she opposed immunizations, she wanted to know if vaccines come from animal research. When assured that they do, she replied, “Then I would have to say yes.” Asked what will happen when epidemics return, she said, “Don’t worry, scientists will find some way of using computers.” 思考题： The example of the grandmotherly woman is used to show the public’s ________. [A] discontent with animal research 从例子中我们可以读出老太太对动物研究的不满意，我们也可以认为公众对于动物研究不满，但是我们不能认为作者举这个例子就是为了说明公众的不满。因为我们不是作者。作者想说明什么，要让作者自己说！ 作者在哪里对公众做了评价：第一句和第二句！ 所以第一句和第二句才是线索句！ 切分后的关键信息： 1.few people understand the process of health care research. 没有人懂医学研究的过程。 2.many are perplexed that anyone would deliberately harm an animal. 很多人（公众）会很疑惑：有人会有意伤害动物。 所以作者想说的是公众不懂！！！ 所以答案是B！ [B] ignorance about medical science 公众对于医学知识无知！ 完美替换！ 当然从例子本身我们也能读出老太太的无知： “Don’t worry, scientists will find some way of using computers.” 但最安全的做题方式还是从作者的直接表述中寻找答案。 [C] indifference to epidemics [D] anxiety about animal rights 这两个选项估计也有同学能从例子中读出来。 但是从一二句（作者观点）中是找不到对应的，所以不选。 明天的句子: Johnson & Johnson and its peers were once prasied as a collective of hero-innovators and credited with bringing lifesaving, world-changing technology from lab bench to patient bedside. Today they are more readily associated with rampant price raising, the worst drug overdose epidemic in modern history and a steady beat of cases similar to the talc-cancer one, in which profitable products caused real harm. 思考题： Which of the following is true according to the text? (A) Johnson & Johnson changes its image for the profit of products. (B) Johnson & Johnson changes the price of drug to increase the dose. (C) Johnson & Johnson and its peers undergo the change of image. (D) Johnson & Johnson and its peers suffer from the change of price . 我们可能彼此都需要鼓励吧，你的点赞和点击中间就是对我最好的鼓励吧。 感谢！ 何凯文 赞赏 长按二维码向我转账 受苹果公司新规定影响，微信 iOS 版的赞赏功能被关闭，可通过二维码转账支持公众号。 阅读原文 阅读 微信扫一扫 关注该公众号 微信扫一扫 使用小程序 即将打开""小程序 取消 打开