中非合作好不好，中非人民最有发言权！习近平主旨讲话双语划重点 双语君 中国日报双语新闻 中国日报双语新闻 微信号 Chinadaily_Mobile 功能介绍 China Daily 旗下官方账号。想学接地气的实用英语表达？想看最新环球热点资讯？想了解英美国家的文化生活？来找双语君吧！每周七天，我们（chinadaily_mobile）为您的英语保鲜！ 9月3日，中非合作论坛北京峰会开幕，中国国家主席习近平出席峰会开幕式并发表主旨讲话。 新华社记者 刘卫兵 摄 讲话中，习近平这些关于中非关系的精彩论述赢得阵阵掌声： 中非合作好不好，只有中非人民最有发言权。 Ultimately, it is for the peoples of China and Africa to judge the performance of China-Africa cooperation. 任何人都不能破坏中非人民的大团结！ No one could undermine the great unity between the Chinese people and the African people. 中非关系未来怎么走？如何打造中非命运共同体？中国将推出哪些重大行动？一起来看！ 一句话评价中非关系 中非双方基于相似遭遇和共同使命，在过去的岁月里同心同向、守望相助，走出了一条特色鲜明的合作共赢之路。 With similar fate in the past and a common mission, China and Africa have extended sympathy to and helped each other throughout all the years. Together, we have embarked on a distinctive path of win-win cooperation. 四个“都不能” 回击外界对中非关系干扰 ❶ 中国在合作中坚持真诚友好、平等相待。 China values sincerity, friendship and equality in pursuing cooperation. 中国永远是非洲的好朋友、好伙伴、好兄弟。 For China, we are always Africa's good friend, good partner and good brother. 任何人都不能破坏中非人民的大团结！ No one could undermine the great unity between the Chinese people and the African people. ❷ 中国在合作中坚持义利相兼、以义为先。 China pursues common interests and puts friendship first in pursuing cooperation. 中国主张多予少取、先予后取、只予不取，张开怀抱欢迎非洲搭乘中国发展快车。 China follows the principle of giving more and taking less, giving before taking and giving without asking for return. With open arms, we welcome African countries aboard the express train of China's development. 任何人都不能阻挡中非人民振兴的步伐！ No one could hold back the Chinese people or the African people as we march toward rejuvenation. ❸ 中国在合作中坚持发展为民、务实高效。 China takes a people-oriented approach in pursuing practical cooperation with efficiency. 中非合作好不好，只有中非人民最有发言权。 Ultimately, it is for the peoples of China and Africa to judge the performance of China-Africa cooperation. 任何人都不能以想象和臆测否定中非合作的显著成就！ No one could deny the remarkable achievements made in China-Africa cooperation, not with their assumption or imagination. ❹ 中国在合作中坚持开放包容、兼收并蓄。 China takes an open and inclusive approach to cooperation. 凡是对非洲有利的事情，我们都欢迎、都支持，全世界都应该尽力做、认真做。 China welcomes and supports all initiatives that meet Africa's interests, and believes that it should be the same with the wider international community. 任何人都不能阻止和干扰国际社会支持非洲发展的积极行动！ No one could stand in the way or obstruct international efforts to support Africa's development. 　　 “五不”处理非洲事务 习近平指出，13亿多中国人民始终同12亿多非洲人民同呼吸、共命运，始终尊重非洲、热爱非洲、支持非洲，坚持做到“五不”（"five-no" approach），即： ► 不干预非洲国家探索符合国情的发展道路 no interference in African countries' pursuit of development paths that fit their national conditions; ► 不干涉非洲内政 no interference in African countries' internal affairs; ► 不把自己的意志强加于人 no imposition of our will on African countries; ► 不在对非援助中附加任何政治条件 no attachment of political strings to assistance to Africa; ► 不在对非投资融资中谋取政治私利 and no seeking of selfish political gains in investment and financing cooperation with Africa. 中国希望各国都能在处理非洲事务时做到这“五不”。 We hope this "five-no" approach could apply to other countries as they deal with matters regarding Africa. 中国担当，解答时代命题 习近平指出，当今世界正在经历百年未有之大变局。和平与发展（peace and development）是当今时代的主题，也是时代的命题。 ► 面对时代命题，中国把为人类作出新的更大贡献作为自己的使命。 To respond to the call of the times, China takes it its mission to make new and even greater contribution to mankind. ► 中国愿同国际合作伙伴共建“一带一路”。 China is ready to jointly promote the Belt and Road Initiative with international partners. ► 中国将积极参与全球治理，秉持共商共建共享全球治理观。 China will get actively involved in global governance and stay committed to the vision of consultation, cooperation and benefit for all in global governance. ► 中国坚定不移坚持对外开放。 China will remain committed to opening-up. 六个关键词：打造中非命运共同体 习近平主席指出，中非早已结成休戚与共的命运共同体，我们愿同非洲人民心往一处想、劲往一处使，携手打造责任共担、合作共赢、幸福共享、文化共兴、安全共筑、和谐共生的中非命运共同体（China-Africa community with a shared future）。 ❶ 责任共担 Assume our joint responsibility 加强在涉及彼此核心利益和重大关切问题上的相互理解和支持。 [We could] enhance mutual understanding and support on issues involving each other's core interests and major concerns. ❷ 合作共赢 Pursue win-win cooperation 要抓住中非发展战略对接的机遇，用好共建“一带一路”带来的重大机遇。 We could both seize the opportunity created by the complementarity between our respective development strategies and the major opportunities presented by the Belt and Road Initiative. ❸ 幸福共享 Deliver happiness for all of us 要把增进民生福祉作为发展中非关系的出发点和落脚点。中非合作要给中非人民带来看得见、摸得着的成果和实惠。 Making lives better for our people is what we aim to achieve in growing China-Africa relations; so we need to make sure our cooperation delivers real benefits to us both in China and in Africa. ❹ 文化共兴 Enjoy cultural prosperity 我们要促进中非文明交流互鉴、交融共存，为彼此文明复兴、文化进步、文艺繁荣提供持久助力。 By enhancing exchanges, mutual learning and harmonious co-existence of our civilizations, we will inject lasting impetus into invigorating our civilizations and cultures, enriching our artistic creations, and provide rich cultural nourishment for China-Africa cooperation. ❺ 安全共筑 Enjoy common security 坚定支持非洲国家和非洲联盟等地区组织以非洲方式解决非洲问题。中国愿为促进非洲和平稳定发挥建设性作用。 We firmly support African countries and the African Union as well as other regional organizations in Africa in solving African issues in the African way. China is ready to play a constructive role in promoting peace and stability in Africa and will support African countries to strengthen their independent capacity for safeguarding stability and peace. ❻ 和谐共生 Promote harmony between man and nature 中国愿同非洲加强在应对气候变化、应用清洁能源、防控荒漠化和水土流失等生态环保领域交流合作。 China will work with Africa to pursue green, low-carbon, circular and sustainable development and protect our lush mountains and lucid waters and all living beings on our planet. 未来三年将实施“八大行动” 中国愿以打造新时代更加紧密的中非命运共同体为指引，在推进中非“十大合作计划”基础上，同非洲国家密切配合，未来三年和今后一段时间重点实施“八大行动”： ❶ 实施产业促进行动 First, China will launch an industrial promotion initiative. 中国决定在华设立中国—非洲经贸博览会等。 We have decided to open a China-Africa economic and trade expo in China. ❷ 实施设施联通行动 Second, China will launch an infrastructure connectivity initiative. 中国决定和非洲联盟启动编制《中非基础设施合作规划》； We have decided to jointly formulate a China-Africa infrastructure cooperation plan with the African Union. 支持非洲单一航空运输市场建设，开通更多中非直航航班等。 We will support Africa in developing the Single African Air Transport Market and open more direct flights between China and Africa. ❸ 实施贸易便利行动 Third, China will launch a trade facilitation initiative. 中国决定扩大进口非洲商品特别是非资源类产品，支持非洲国家参加中国国际进口博览会，免除非洲最不发达国家参展费用等。 We have decided to increase imports, particularly non-resource products, from Africa. We support African countries in participating in the China International Import Expo. The least developed African countries participating in it will be exempted from paying exhibition stand fees. ❹ 实施绿色发展行动 Fourth, we will launch a green development initiative. 中国决定为非洲实施50个绿色发展和生态环保援助项目，重点加强在应对气候变化、海洋合作、荒漠化防治、野生动物和植物保护等方面的交流合作。 We have decided to undertake 50 projects for green development and ecological and environmental protection in Africa to expand exchanges and cooperation with Africa on climate change, ocean, desertification prevention and control, and wildlife protection. ❺ 实施能力建设行动 Fifth, we will launch a capacity building initiative. 在非洲设立10个鲁班工坊，向非洲青年提供职业技能培训； Ten Luban Workshops will be set up in Africa to provide vocational training for young Africans. 实施头雁计划，为非洲培训1000名精英人才等。 A tailor-made program will be carried out to train 1,000 high-caliber Africans. ❻ 实施健康卫生行动 Sixth, we will launch a health care initiative. 优化升级50个医疗卫生援非项目，重点援建非洲疾控中心总部、中非友好医院等旗舰项目等。 China has decided to upgrade 50 medical and health aid programs for Africa, particularly flagship projects such as the headquarters of the African Center for Disease Control and Prevention and China-Africa Friendship Hospitals. ❼ 实施人文交流行动 Seventh, we will launch a people-to-people exchange initiative. 设立中国非洲研究院； China decided to establish an institute of African studies to enhance exchanges with Africa on civilization. 实施50个文体旅游项目等； Fifty joint cultural, sports and tourism events will be organized. 打造中非媒体合作网络等。 A China-Africa media cooperation network will be established. ❽ 实施和平安全行动 Eighth, we will launch a peace and security initiative. 设立中非和平安全合作基金； China decided to set up a China-Africa peace and security fund. 设立中非和平安全论坛等。 A China-Africa peace and security forum will be established. 讲话最后，习近平主席对中非青年交流提出了希望，勉励他们为构建中非命运共同体作出自己的努力。 只要中非友好的接力棒能够在青年一代手中不断相传，中非命运共同体就一定会更具生机活力，中华民族伟大复兴的中国梦和非洲人民团结振兴的非洲梦就一定能够早日实现！ I am confident that the baton of China-Africa friendship will be passed from one generation to the next and that China and Africa, working together, will build an even more vibrant community with a shared future. The day will surely come when the Chinese nation realizes its dream of national renewal and Africa realizes its dream of unity and invigoration! 最后，想看习近平主席主旨演讲双语对照全文的同学，请在中国日报双语新闻主页回复“中非合作论坛”，获取文章。 编辑：左卓 唐晓敏 英文来源：新华社 中文来源：人民日报 央视新闻 推 荐 阅 读 非洲版《唐人街探案》和《捉妖记》什么样？一线翻译和配音演员为你揭秘…… 这个演讲值得一听：人一生只有9年的自由时光，务必好好度过！ 中国日报双语新闻 ↑长按关注中国最大的双语资讯公众号↑ 双语君 赞赏 长按二维码向我转账 受苹果公司新规定影响，微信 iOS 版的赞赏功能被关闭，可通过二维码转账支持公众号。 阅读 微信扫一扫 关注该公众号 微信扫一扫 使用小程序 即将打开""小程序 取消 打开