你还在“月光”吗？90后没有存款的真相竟然是…… CD君 中国日报双语新闻 中国日报双语新闻 微信号 Chinadaily_Mobile 功能介绍 China Daily 旗下官方账号。想学接地气的实用英语表达？想看最新环球热点资讯？想了解英美国家的文化生活？来找双语君吧！每周七天，我们（chinadaily_mobile）为您的英语保鲜！ It's always interesting to talk about the lifestyle of the post-1990s generation. 90后的生活方式总是让大家津津乐道。 Some of them are in their late 20s, shouldering the responsibilities in the family. 一些90后已经在奔三的路上，承担着家庭责任。 Some of them are in the threshold of the workplace, usually earning the least within the company. 还有一些90后则是刚步入职场的小白，工资水平处于下游。 What they are faced with is the incredible housing price and living pressure. 而他们面临的却是惊天的房价和巨大的生活压力。 However, the young people these days manage to live comfortably, without saving or in debt. 不过，他们即使没有存款甚至负债，也依然能过得很舒适。 Their consumption habits are quite different from our traditional understanding — it seems normal to max out credit cards on luxury brands while eating instant noodles. 他们的消费习惯有别于传统观念。现在一边为了奢侈品牌刷爆信用卡，一边只吃得起泡面的状态似乎不足为奇。 You may be wondering the reasons behind their behavior. Let's have a look. 你一定想知道这背后的原因吧！接着往下看。 1 Convenience is the key 便利是关键 With apps like Didi and Uber, why bother to take public transportation? 有了滴滴和优步，干嘛去挤公交地铁？ Now that fruits and vegetables can be delivered directly to your home, what's the point of going to market? 蔬菜水果都能直接送上门，干嘛去逛超市？ If paying more can save plenty of time and energy, money is not the problem. 多花点钱就能省事省时间，哪点不好！ This is a young mother's opinion, and it surely represents many young people. 这是一位年轻妈妈的观点，一定也代表了大多数的90后的想法。 You may blame them for ignoring China's traditional virtue of being thrifty, but think like this: what are apps like Alipay, Taobao, Didi or Uber for? They are created to make our lives much more convenient. 你也许会说他们丢失了勤俭节约的传统美德，但是仔细想一想，像支付宝、淘宝、滴滴、优步这些应用软件不就是为了让我们的生活更加便利吗？ Born in the era of internet, the post-90s generation is used to paying for services and trade money for time, which means their consumption habits are the natural result of the social environment. 成长于互联网时代的90后早就适应了花钱省时间的消费习惯，这是受社会大环境影响的自然结果。 They are not simply wilful, but they do know how to enjoy a better quality of life. 他们并不是任性，而是懂得享受高质量的生活。 2 State of mind is important 心态不能崩 Chen Mo, a professor of psychology from East China Normal University, once said that owing to the one-child policy, most of this generation don't have siblings, which gives them more time to think about themselves: what they want, what they need and what they care about. 华东师大心理学教授陈默曾在演讲中分享到：90后这一代大多是独生子女，所以他们就有更多的时间来思考自己想要什么、需要什么、在意什么。 It does not necessarily make them selfish, but they do know how to respect themselves. 这并不一定会让他们变得自私，不过他们确实知道如何尊重自己。 Consequently, state of mind is their priority; following their heart is the consumption concept. 所以他们觉得万事不能影响心情，潜意识里养成了“顺心意”消费的模式。 Except for the extreme examples like investing everything in video games, it is a good thing to notice the inner growth and to satisfy the internal needs. 除了把所有钱都花在游戏上这种极端的例子，关注内心成长和满足精神需求都是值得推崇的。 Most young people believe that spending is the mother of earning. 大多数年轻人都认同会花钱才会挣钱这个道理。 If they dress up well every day, have delicious meals, and live in a cosy house, they will be energetic and motivated to work hard. 只有穿好、吃好、住好，他们才会觉得工作充满动力。 3 Money is not everything 钱不值钱 We all have heard of this tale: A Chinese lady saved money for 50 years, and before her death, she could finally afford an apartment. 我们都听过这样一个段子：中国老太太存了一辈子的钱，临死钱终于够买个房子。 An American lady, however, bought a house in her early age, and she paid off the loan before passing away. 美国老太太年轻时买了房子，临死前终于还清了贷款。 The post-1990s generation has been affected by the Western values to a certain degree. 90后一定程度上受到了西方价值观念的影响。 They are not obsessed with the idea of saving money; on the other hand, they are more aware of the value of consuming. 他们不会一味存钱，而是更关注消费带来的价值。 Money is not everything — what it brings us matters. 钱不重要，它能换来什么才重要。 Every generation grows up with its unique identity. It's still too early to judge whether their way of consuming is good or not. 每一代人都有独特的烙印，不能过早判定他们的消费方式太任性或不合理。 The post-90s generation have just kicked off their new world and they have plenty of room for growth. 退一万步来说，现在最大的90后尚未及而立之年。在未来漫长的人生中，90后还有极多的机会去经历和成长。 中文参考: 拾文化 编辑：张曦 实习：林语琴 推 荐 阅 读 非洲版《唐人街探案》和《捉妖记》什么样？一线翻译和配音演员为你揭秘…… 女球员场上换衣服都违规？男球员们可都是赤裸上身呀丨外媒说 中国日报双语新闻 ↑长按关注中国最大的双语资讯公众号↑ 会花钱更会挣钱 CD君 赞赏 人赞赏 长按二维码向我转账 受苹果公司新规定影响，微信 iOS 版的赞赏功能被关闭，可通过二维码转账支持公众号。 阅读 微信扫一扫 关注该公众号 微信扫一扫 使用小程序 即将打开""小程序 取消 打开