我就想在九月做这样一些事，你呢？（184句） 原创： 何凯文 何凯文考研英语 何凯文考研英语 微信号 kkenglish 功能介绍 何凯文考研英语辅导账号 1.我已经从第1句到160句中选了40篇文章，还从同类期刊中选了26篇文章总共66篇，编成了新的2020版的时文精析（也就是2019版的预测版），我准备选讲其中的20篇，就在微博上，每篇15分钟。从3号开始。我微博:何凯文 这是新版的二维码： 2.我开始准备今年五夜十篇，每天我会抽出3小时备课。今年的五夜十篇准备先送大家三步法的精华讲解。 3.我开始审核最后的六套题，每天用2小时审核。 4.每日一句我要开始整理和回顾了，不能停留于你自己抄写的自我感动之中，必须要有理性的回顾，今天看到去年选的句子我简直服死我自己了，这就是预测帝嘛！虽然这样的预言成真让人很难受。But while growth is picking up, the global economy still looks vulnerable, the IMF said, especially amid the growing threat of protectionist measures that could cut economies off from global trading partners and risk triggering a trade war.（看明白了吗！） 5.把祝福送给今天反砍案中的于海明先生。法律和正义没有让我们这些卑微但勇敢地活着的普通人失望。生活会更好。“龙哥”通过白死实现了不白死。 今天的句子： 一些病，患病者不多，尤其是儿童的病，因此医药公司不愿意主动研发药物，为了救孩子家长在人群中发起了医药实验的众筹。 Some crowdfunding campaigns have been astoundingly successful: they’ve raised millions of dollars to fund basic research and clinical trials that have likely saved children’s lives. Donations can, however, only carry a therapy so far before a pharmaceutical company must grab the baton—an outcome that’s not guaranteed. And such therapies may not be able to turn back the clock on damage that’s already done, making cinematic happy endings to these stories unlikely. Still, participation in trials gives families some hope of a longer and healthier future for their children. 思考题： According to the text, which of the following statement is TRUE? A. Pharmaceutical company is more important than Crowdfunding B. Professional involvement plays a critical role to the success. C. The outcome can be guaranteed for lack of donations. D. Participation in trials gives families rosy but false hope. 词汇突破： 1.crowdfunding 众筹 2. astoundingly 令人惊讶地 3. clinical trials 临床试验 4. therapy 治疗方案 5. cinematic happy endings 戏剧性的美丽结局 6. Still 然而（这个词是关键） 7. pharmaceutical company 制药公司 8. guaranteed 保障 9.grab the baton 接过接力棒 第一句： Some crowdfunding campaigns have been astoundingly successful: they’ve raised millions of dollars to fund basic research and clinical trials that have likely saved children’s lives. 切分： 1.Some crowdfunding campaigns have been astoundingly successful: 2.they’ve raised millions of dollars to fund basic research and clinical trials 3.that have likely saved children’s lives. 参考译文：一些众筹活动令人惊奇的成功：它们筹集了数以百万计美元资助基础研究和貌似拯救了孩童生命的临床研究。 第二句： Donations can, however, only carry a therapy so far before a pharmaceutical company must grab the baton—an outcome that’s not guaranteed. 1. Donations can, however, only carry a therapy so far 2.before a pharmaceutical company must grab the baton— 3. an outcome that’s not guaranteed. 参考译文：然而捐助只能把一种疗法带这么远，药企必须抓住接力棒——（即使这样做，）结果也不一定就有保障。 第三句： And such therapies may not be able to turn back the clock on damage that’s already done, making cinematic happy endings to these stories unlikely. 切分： 1. And such therapies may not be able to turn back the clock on damage 2. that’s already done, 3. making （cinematic happy endings to these stories） unlikely 参考译文：此类疗法也许不能拨回时钟，消除已经遭受的损害，不太可能让这些故事有戏剧性的美丽结局。 第四句： Still, participation in trials gives families some hope of a longer and healthier future for their children. 参考译文：但参加这些试验仍给予了家庭希望，让他们的孩子可能有更长更健康的未来。 思考题： According to the text, which of the following statement is TRUE? A. Pharmaceutical company is more important than Crowdfunding 比较不存在，所以不对！ B. Professional involvement plays a critical role to the success. 对应第二句，药企必须抓住接力棒=专业性的参与！正确答案！ C. The outcome can be guaranteed for lack of donations. 拼凑的选项！滚！ D. Participation in trials gives families rosy but false hope. But false 在文章中没有！错！ 你就说是不是很清爽！ 明天的句子： Yet the BBC will have to change, because the broadcasting world around it is changing. The commercial TV channels — ITV and Channel 4 — were required by the Thatcher Government's Broadcasting Act to become more commercial, competing with each other for advertisers, and cutting costs and jobs. But it is the arrival of new satellite channels — funded partly by advertising and partly by viewers' subscriptions — which will bring about the biggest changes in the long term. 思考题： 58. The foremost reason why the BBC has to readjust itself is no other than ________. 　　[A] the emergence of commercial TV channels 　　[B] the enforcement of Broadcasting Act by the government 　　[C] the urgent necessity to reduce costs and jobs 　　[D] the challenge of new satellite channels 九月去遇见更好的自己吧！ 感谢点赞！ 何凯文 赞赏 长按二维码向我转账 受苹果公司新规定影响，微信 iOS 版的赞赏功能被关闭，可通过二维码转账支持公众号。 阅读 微信扫一扫 关注该公众号 微信扫一扫 使用小程序 即将打开""小程序 取消 打开